Dream World
I would like to go with the third option of recording a topic of my choice.
I would like to talk about dreams. Have you ever had a dream? Of course, or else you would not even understand the word dream. Dreams are the play of the sub conscious mind. Today, I would like to take the liberty of challenging the success of scientific community in this area. At least to let my creativity flow uninterrupted.

Although humans have been dreaming for centuries, scientific community have known very little about the dreams. Science is successful in measuring the gross phenomenon and fails when it comes to subtle phenomenon. Dreams are the result of the subconscious mind which is very understudied. I would like to keep it mysterious about the source of the information you are about to hear and let you be the judge.
The more vivid your dreams are the more creative your mind is and the sharper your perception is. Simply put dreams are a way of gauging your psychological state and mental capacity. Many mysteries are said to have been solved in the dreams. For example, things like solving problems, finding inspirations, inventions etc..
It is said that on average every human beings will have four to six dreams per night. Dreams do come at a price. The more dreams you have, the more your brain works and the restless you during the day.  An ideal sleep would be dreamless which is said to have achieved by some meditation practitioners.

At least for now we can’t avoid dreams, so let me enlighten you about dreams so you will make informed decisions and conclusions about them soon. 
 Dreams occur due to various reasons. There is a blurriness between different reasons because dreams do not follow logic that human conscious mind can comprehend.


There are many reasons behind dreams. I will explain some reasons behind them.

1.	Pop up of Subconscious memories. Things that you barely noticed during the day.
On a normal day, you would notice countless number of things such as passersby, flowers, cars, birds etc. Due to the nature of your work or day, you might end up focusing on few things and subconsciously ignoring others. The things you have ignored are recorded in your brain and might show up as memories in your dreams. Example: An investigator might dream about some clues in the scene that he might have ignored.


2.	Past experiences. Memories from the past

Sometimes your past experiences and memories might show up due to various reasons that are out of today’s scope. Umm.. Let me give you a taste … For example, you might have been cheated on by someone in the past, dreams are a way of bringing those memories to warn you about the current relationship.

3.	Brains way of planning

When you want to plan a wedding or anything in general so desperately, you might even end up dreaming about planning for the event in your dreams. These plans might seem ridiculous though.

4.	Continuation of the consciousness from the day… Watching a horror movie before bed.

When you are doing something and fell asleep such as watching a movie and reading a book, or solving a mathematics problem, you might end up doing the same task in your dreams.


5.	Surrounding influences.
The environment you are sleeping will also have a major influence on the quality of sleep and the nature of dreams. If you are sleeping in a cold room, you might end up dreaming about snow.
If you are sleeping with your television turned on, you might end up having dreams that resonate with the sounds that you hear on the television.

Now we are entering into a supernatural phenomenon that is debatable and open for interpretation. Are you clear so far? Any Doubts?
One of the audience responds!! What is a supernatural phenomenon? That’s a good question.
Anything that a human being cannot understand with his tiny brain or science cannot prove can be viewed as the supernatural phenomenon. Are you clear? Okay. The next cause of dreams is 
6.	Alternate reality or alternate universe.

Every human being has a spirit, sometimes referred to as soul. Every soul is born from a super soul. A super soul can give birth to many souls and all these souls stay in touch with their super soul. These souls might live in different planets, different countries, or even next to each other without awareness. It is said that if souls from the super soul happen to be close to each other, they experience some special feelings. Let’s call them souls sibling souls for argument’s sake. Any experiences from any of the sibling souls will be shared by other sibling souls through the super soul as a medium. These are experienced as dreams. If one of your sibling souls happen to take birth as a dog, you might even start to have empathy towards them subconsciously.

7.	Messages from the outer world.
The Super souls are even referred to as guiding spirits in some religions. They might end up giving you directions, warning when you are in need of help. You will get these messages as dreams. 
8.	Out of Body experiences.

Every night your soul leaves your body and roams in the world. You might not remember the things that it does when it left your body. But sometimes you might end up remembering the things that the soul does such as floating in the midair, looking at yourself, visiting far off places. These things might end up as dreams.


If we go on and on, we can further divide the above discussed categories and gain better understanding.  Let me sign off here. I hope everyone understood what I have said so far. Do you have any doubts? If not, have a wonderful day.

